PEGI 18
everybody zachary levi here over the
last few months we've brought you
exclusive behind-the-scenes looks at the
final hours of development tomb raider
scene camilla recording her last few
lines rihanna i'm using her last few
words and jason completing the last few
notes of the score as those key pieces
lock into place it's time to reveal one
of the last portions of the game and a
team has been shrouded in secrecy for
two years we're here in the beautiful
and freezing Montreal Canada to bring
you the final hours of Tomb Raider
multiplayer addition these the final
hours of Tomb Raider welcome to yet
another world-class to do in the square
Enix portfolio I toss Montreal home of
the multi-award winning game deus ex
locked away in one of the far corners of
the studio is a team of experienced
passionate professionals hooven
specially brought together to create the
first ever multiplayer component to the
tomb raider universe let's meet the team
behind the vision direction and
decisions and hopefully get a chance to
play a few rounds
here we are at i toast Montreal before
we get into why we're here Carl you now
have an amazing stash my friend what is
the impetus behind this so as a studio
we've been participating in movember
good friend of mine JJ Owens works for
Movember in LA and we tell the gaming
challenge and we brought studio small
around the world together I think so far
we vary somewhere in a region of 140
hundred and fifty thousand dollars well
you know be the big success although my
wife doesn't necessarily always approve
she hates it oh my no no no she says
that she hates it she secretly loves it
what were some of the factors that led
to a multiplayer facet to this new tomb
raider when we started developing sort
of our vision for reimagining tomb
raider on paper it was all about single
player and as we started to build that
world that we had the island we had the
Solari and the scavengers we started to
realize that we had this canvas great
warring factions great landscapes yeah
had all these really awesome places
where it was all about traversal and
single player we start looking at that
we thought wow what about multiplayer
part of the genesis of that was lark
rocks and the guardian of light that
kind of cracked open a door to lead you
guys into the only player into here and
idols Montreal Guardian light was a
downloadable a smaller scale project and
that allowed us to sort of take the
risks that we wouldn't necessarily take
on a full-blown project guardian of
light was our pixar short it's the idea
that whilst you're building a big
project you're always thinking about
that next thing but also allowed us to
be able to start understanding co-opting
and network
she brought to Mayor funds together for
one of the very first time here them in
their ear and they were having fun and
as a result of that that led to was
thinking about multiplayer hopefully our
single player experience we're
delivering is a very sort of
single-player solitary immersive type of
experience but at the same time we
believed tomb raiding together with
friends would be fun generating I think
that's a first time I've ever heard that
Tara like that it's fun you know axe
climbing and zip lining and the
traversal that we get in there and the
traps for me it was very sad to have
that catch-22 of it would be great to do
this in multiplayer but we just can't
split our resources like that and that's
how I dis Montreal came about we hit
staffed up our teams develop a single
player everybody was gelling together
really well and it wasn't something that
we wants to just bolt on we always said
we were gonna do it we all do it right
if you could have a fan play the
multiplayer for the first time what do
you want them saying for me they're kind
of different moods it's not like I do
one or the other it's kind of like
sometimes I turn down the lights and
just pump play that single player
experience and other times I want to
just jump in and have fun and counts
dark you fool
jocuri producer a multiplayer on Tomb
Raider it's the first time Tomb Raider
has ever incorporated multiplayer yeah
and you're in charge of that yeah what's
running through your mind when you get
that call well first off exciting right
i mean we're all huge fans a two-meter
on the team i mean we grew up with lara
croft but when we spoke to crystal like
we want to do multiplayer we're thinking
how do you do that it's always been
Laura's story you've been in charge of
creating the first ever Lara Croft Tomb
Raider hill pressuring multiplayer no
pressure Zack thank you what are some of
the main pillars that you brought over
from the single-player to the
multiplayer to make those two worlds
cohesive the element that really stuck
out was survival group surviving
together right but then traversal the
ability to go up and down and kind of
everywhere in the level the weapons you
know the characters what did you guys
have to tweak in order to create an
engaging multiplayer experience that
wouldn't necessarily work with the
pieces that were in play with the
single-player experience one example is
the boat especially in this in the
reboot is so iconic that we had to make
it work for multiplayer have a certain
forgiveness when you play single player
multiplayer players expect snappiness I
shoot you I expect you to go down or you
can just do what I do just take out the
biggest gun and just run for the mouth
shut about the environment itself can be
a threat the Solari you know the guys
that are on the island have had a chance
to prepare traps you've got things like
an ammo box that looks like an ammo box
but it's really explosive device I need
ammo and it looks just like the regular
ammo box and then you're gonzo we have a
lightning rod you'll get a lightning
strike on the rod and then you'll
eliminate your enemy
first and foremost we want to be humble
you want players to just have a really
memorable experience I had fun doing
this to remember when we set that trap
moments that the players will come back
to and talk about experiences that
they've had for themselves not
necessarily the game offering them
experience absolutely so Joe behind us
we have the QA team or the Quality
Assurance team they're a part of the
development team they can tell us what
we need to fix him what's working what's
not when do I get to game test when do I
get to get my hands on again soon we got
a surprise for your first day so when I
was approached to host the final hours
of Tomb Raider essentially the biggest
ask not even asked tell that I had was I
want to be in the game I want to have a
cameo I want to have something so guess
what
boom boom boom I'm a playable character
in the multiplayer tomb raider how sick
is that Joe you and your team are
awesome I can play with myself virtually
are you ready ah doll that burns Oh suck
those transmitters running radio
transmitter activate getting off this
damn Island we send this thing beautiful
I would like to try and kick your butt
as me in this map right now can we try
it all right bring it let's do it it's
happening right now oh nice is that one
my traps that was booby traps are really
fun I mean they're really really fun
yeah don't worry about it just cuz you
made the game an i-beam it as you can
see from the people and passion here at
I lost Montreal this isn't just some
add-on they're devoting themselves to
making this an experience in keeping
with the feeling of single-player
familiar yet different coming up in the
final two episodes of our series we go
back to the home of lara croft they're
taking tomb raider to the finish line
and we'll be there for it